Nandini Bhandari, Gina Huang, and Jaila Taylor
Professor Li
MIS3640-01
30 March 2021

Assignment #3

Overview:
Our project consists of a simple website containing some static pages that request information from the user to output a small amount of dynamic information. We utilized web API’s from both MapQuest and Boston’s MBTA to write our own package and connect it with our data sources.  Furthermore, our function incorporates an address input and returns the closest MBTA stop and the distance from the given place to that stop. Moreover, through utilizing the web framework Flask we created our simple webpage with both python and HTML components to be the shell for our code.  
 
Reflection:
When designating the tasks out to each team member, we strategized by understanding each person’s strengths and weaknesses. And so, when it came to coding we decided on pair programming together so that our strongest coder would share their screens and the rest of our team members contributed throughout the process. By pair programming, it allowed the other team members to draw analysis and make conclusions based on the terminal outputs. In the beginning, we ran into issues with the coding aspect of the project because we had some team members whose visual code ran while it did not properly run for others. And so, because of this we knew that pair programming would be the most efficient way to go. While performing the pair programming if we one person coding and they ran into difficulties we would have a different person switch off and attempt the code on their visual studio code so that a fresh pair of eyes could help to identify the problem. We found this method proved to be the most effective and efficient way for our team to work together and output the best results. 

During the beginning of the assignment it was going pretty well because we were able to take the directions given to us and apply it quickly. It was easy for us to extract the data from the map quest url provided and then filter for the latitude and longitude values. Some of the initial challenges we ran into included the inability to produce the data of the closest MBTA given a specific latitude and longitude. However, if we entered a latitude and longitude of a station, our output would be the data of that station. For instance, we tried changing the location to Fenway and it produced the data but if we used the Boston Common we would get this output: {'data': [], 'jsonapi': {'version': '1.0'}}. Also, we did not realize that the API wording for each url was different and so, we tried following the map quest url wording. We thought it was supposed to be this: key={MBTA_API_KEY} and our output kept stating it was a bad request. However, after performing more research we realized soon enough that the format was actually supposed to be api_key ={MBTA_API_KEY}. Prior to starting this assignment, our team wished we would have had more experience using HTML so that we could have a better understanding of the flask application. We were struggling to figure out how to make the webpage present what we coded on python. And so, we had to conduct a lot of research on our own end as well as look back at the previous lectures to figure it. We wished we would have been more familiar with the render_template() function in flask because it was necessary for us to perform our code. In terms of unit testing, our team went in order of each question and performed each task as they were assigned. Moving forward, now that we have a basic exposure to the flask application it can definitely assist us in building our own web applications and we may potentially consider it throughout our final project. 
